1. Write command to create file
	echo " This is a text within the file" >> afile.txt   
 or     touch afile.txt

2. What is Git and GitHub 

	Git is a known as a version control sytem, a management tool that helps a developer to manage changes made to files over time. 
	It allows developers to track changes in their code and can be used to revert back to previous versions of their code. 
	It can also be used as a collaborative tool for multiple developers to work on same project at the same time. 
	Git is usually installed locally on a developers pc/laptop and it is open source.

	Github - With Github, one can store his/her git repositories online. It is a web- based platform meaning your repositories can be 
	accessed from anywhere on the globe. This makes it a great tool for collaboration. 

3. What is the meaning of the acronym CLI 

	Command Line Interface

4. What is the command to see the directory you are inside presently

	pwd

5.Write the command to move into a different directory

	cd directoryname	or 	cd.. (to move backwards a directory)

6. Write the command to list the content of  directory

	ls

7. Write the command to list the content of a directory including leading path

	ls -d "$PWD"/*

8. Write the command to initialize git in adirectory

	git init

9. Write the command to clone a repository

	git clone https://token@weburl.git (If there is need for authentication)

10. Write a command to push a file to GitHub 

	git add .     or     git add <just a single filename> (adds only one specific file) 
	git commit -m "a comment"
	git push  

11. What is the difference between git and GitHub

	Git is a commad line tool while Github is a GUI tool
	Git is installed locally on a machine while Github is web based
	Git is a tool for version control while Github is a platform that hosts Git repositories with additional collaborative capabilities


12. Write the command to configure your git

	git config --gloabal user.name "username"
	git config --global user.email "useremail"

